Data in CrateDB is stored in
tables.
Tables are organised into
columns which have different
data types depending on what
data will be stored in them.
In this video, we'll look at
some of the primitive data types
built into CrateDB.
Primitive types are used when
defining columns that store
scalar values such as numbers
and strings.
If you're familiar with SQL, you
should recognise most of the
data types described here.
We'll begin with the data types
used for storing numerical data.
CrateDB uses these data types to
represent integer values.
A SMALLINT can store 2 byte
numbers in the range -32,768 to
32,767.
Use the INTEGER type for
integers that could be
represented by 4 bytes and BIGINT
for those that need an 8
byte range.
When storing floating point
numbers, choose REAL for single
precision or DOUBLE PRECISION
for more accuracy.
Character or string data can be
represented with these data
types.
TEXT and VARCHAR represent
variable length strings.
To specify a string with a
maximum length, use VARCHAR and
specify the length shown as N
here.
Strings longer than this length
will be truncated upon
insertion.
Use the CHARACTER type with an
optional length value to
represent fixed length blank
padded strings.
All of these data types support
the storage of string data
containing Unicode characters.
Date and time data is stored
using the TIMESTAMP data type.
A timestamp represents a
specific date and time as a
number of milliseconds since the
UNIX epoch.
There are two variants of this
data type.
TIMESTAMP WITHOUT TIME ZONE
assumes all values are in UTC
time.
Use TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE
when you want to specify a time
zone offset from UTC.
When inserting data into these
columns, it can be expressed as
string literals or as UNIX
timestamps supporting
millisecond precision.
Finally, CrateDB has some other
useful primitive data types.
Use BOOLEAN to represent true or
false data.
The IP data type represents IP
addresses and supports both V4
and V6 representations.
The BIT data type stores bit
sequences, useful for storing
bit maps.
Here's a fragment of the CREATE
TABLE statement used to define
the schema for our taxi rides
data in the Chicago data set,
and here's some sample data for
a taxi ride record.
Trip IDs are variable length and
contain alphanumeric data.
They're stored in a TEXT column.
For the numerical vehicle IDs,
we're using an INTEGER
representation.
Start and end times for the ride
are represented as UTC time
stamps, with the data here being
inserted in UNIX timestamp
format.
Chicago is divided into 77
community areas numbered 1 to
77.
As we know the range of possible
values when designing the
schema, we've chosen SMALLINT
for these columns.
Each taxi ride has latitude and
longitude values for the area
that it started and ended in.
Here, we're using DOUBLE PRECISION
to represent these
floating point numbers.
CrateDB has specialised data
types that handle geospatial
data, and we'll explore those in
a separate video.
In this video, we introduce some
of CrateDB's primitive data
types.
To learn more about these and
others, including aliases
provided for compatibility with
Postgres, please visit the CrateDB
documentation website at
docs.cratedb.com.